Oh
my fridge van Gil's executive director
of escuela del Sol Montessori and it's
hardwood arts center almost 30 years ago
when my children were young I wanted to
find a school a safe place where joy
satisfaction happiness and fun are
considered valuable qualities in an
environment that supports and nurtures
emotional social and creative growth as
well as intellectual abilities
I found escuela del Sol Montessori I've
been fortunate to be able to continue
developing escuela SPRO graham's that
now begin at 18 months and extended to
6th grade in this video you'll be
introduced to our school you will hear
from teachers and from former students
you will catch a glimpse of the many and
varied activities or children explore
I'm sure you'll find this video
compelling I hope it encourages you to
learn more about our school we like to
think of the Montessori method is
educating the whole child when you say
the whole child what that means is that
you engaged them fully through all of
their senses doctor Montessori was an
educational theorist and being a
scientist in having a scientific
background she was very good at
designing a particular method or a
system of education for each
developmental level that children pass
through she was able to recognize that
from early on even from in the toddler
years children really needed an enriched
environment that allowed them to
discover the world the concept of
children being in charge of their day or
making choices about their day is really
I think the basic tenant of the
Montessori
we promote a lot of interaction with the
natural world as well we do a lot of
planting we have animals and this
develops empathy and care and a deeper
understanding of the world around them
that's kind of what we're offering them
we're offering them the world relevance
of Montessori education and escuela del
Sol in particular is the emphasis that
we do place on autonomy and independence
because what that encourages is creative
thinking the children you know who come
out of a school that encourages them to
be independent thinkers will be much
more successful adults I think that it
gives the children a real sense that
this is their school and that escuela is
you know a place for them it is their
home away from home when I went to
public school I saw kids that you know
we're sitting in class and didn't care
and care to learn didn't care to respect
the teachers and that was very different
for me when I went to school I wanted
you know all of us wanted to be there we
were very into our teachers we you know
connected with our teachers you wanted
to be that you wanted to read the books
you read your own books you know you
wanted to excel in math you wanted you
know to reach algebra and in the fifth
grade you wanted to be there and the
learning styles that uses kweli use your
hands you use you know visualize you do
it all and and so you take those skills
and you use them in you know wherever
you're going academically I was over
prepared I had a higher level of
education than the rest of my classmates
started learn faster than a lot of the
kid
I was it escuela taught me to focus
everything that I do now has really come
from escuela my way I learn has come
from an escuela which is a big help to
me not only were you learning but you're
having fun and you were in a good
environment and it was just it was a
great experience
s whele taught me how to learn in a way
that I find exciting and fun to want to
be in the classroom and want to learn in
terms of academics for being prepared I
felt completely prepared in every
subject escuela taught me to learn by
keeping me excited in what I'm doing and
when I was ready for homework I got
homework and I was excited to take it
home and I was excited to do it and I
enjoyed it feeding to this curiosity
idea is what escuela is all about this
idea of intrinsic motivation where you
do something because you want to not
because there's an exterior motive I
came back after lessons wanting to know
more like when you finish a good book it
doesn't end there's another one coming
you want to know what happens and I
think that escuela definitely taught me
how to want to learn
Montessori education is is really a
preparation for life and so I like to
think about it as preparing children for
what they would encounter in society so
the Montessori model is about working in
groups and learning from each other and
not just learning from the teacher but
learning from your own exploration and
your own experience and learning through
doing so that's why we have so many
materials in our classroom where the
children are working kind of a hands-on
approach and they're they're being
they're able to see concepts not just
memorize them educating the whole child
means not only looking at academics so
it means considering the social and
emotional well-being as a child it's a
place where we interact and where we
respect each other and where we help
each other and where we're really
excited about learning it's so amazing
that it remains countercultural that
Montessori method remains
countercultural and that this fact
traditional factory model of education
that has nothing to do with how human
beings work is the norm why is an
education based on brain development and
yet there's that that's science there's
nothing more exact than that why is
education based on arbitrary theory and
this factory model of filling children
up with information and then expecting
them to spit it back out that is not how
the brain works that is not as not how
neural connections are formed that is
not how a passionate individual becomes
an adult that's that's not the way it
works so I feel fortunate that I'm
involved in
in the community where things are done
in a scientific way we like to think of
our school is one big huge classroom
without any doors see what I mean so
there's this kind of fluid sense of
community that's that's a pretty special
component